=pod

=head1 NAME

log4sh.sh - A shell logging library, based on L<log4bats|https://github.com/goozbach/log4bats>.

=head1 USAGE

    . log4sh.sh [-l level] [-t 0|1] [-T 0|1] [-D 0|1] [-c 0|1] [-f file] [-d path to GNU date] [-qhup]

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -l level

The priority of the log message, logging level:

=over

=item ALL -- synonym for TRACE

=item TRACE

=item DEBUG

=item INFO

=item WARN

=item ERROR

=item FATAL

=item NONE -- no logging

=back

=item -t 0|1

Switch on/off data/timestamp

=item -T 0|1

Switch on/off data/timestamp only in a log file

=item -D 0|1

Write DEBUG information to logfile

=item -c 0|1

Switch on/off colors.

=item -f file

The path to the log file.

=item -d file

The path to the GNU date if different from I</opt/freeware/bin/date> or there is no GNU date in default PATH.

=item -p

Use Perl code which replace GNU date. It works more slower.

=item -q

Be quiet.

=item -u

Show additional information about usage.

=item -h

Show short help.

=back

See also L</CONTROL VARIABLES>. For incorrect option it returns 1.

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ . log4sh.sh
    $ INFO lorem ipsum
    2016-11-29-14:07:42 [INFO] lorem ipsum

    $ FATAL another fatal error
    2016-11-29-14:08:20 [FATAL] another fatal error

    $ LOG4SH_DATE=0 # disable timestamp
    [FATAL] another fatal error

    $ LOG4SH_LEVEL=ERROR # logging only error, fatal

    $ LOG4SH_FILE='some_program.log'
    $ INFO 'a message' # write also to log file with timestamp
    [INFO] a message

=head1 FUNCTIONS

There are following functions:

=over

=item log_fatal, FATAL

=item log_die, DIE

Like the log_fatal, but it also exits with code 200.

=item log_error, ERROR

=item LOGEXIT

Like the log_die or DIE, but it exits with 1 code.

=item log_warn, WARN

=item log_info, INFO

=item log_debug, DEBUG

=item log_trace, TRACE

=item log4sh_init

Initialize log4sh control variables. For example:

    log4sh_init -t 0 -c 0

=back

=head1 CONTROL VARIABLES

These variables can be overwritten in a shell.

=over

=item LOG4SH_DATE=1

Date/timestamp before each message ( to STDOUT and a log file )

=item LOG4SH_DATE_LOG=1

Print date/timestamp only to a log file

=item LOG4SH_DATE_FORMAT="+%F-%T"

Default format for a timestamp. Same as format for L<date(1)>.

=item LOG4SH_DATE_BIN=''

Absolute path to GNU date. If you use this library on AIX machine you should define absolute path to the GNU date program.

The library checks: path /opt/freeware/bin/date for existing  and date for default PATH. The GNU date supports I<--version> switch.

=item LOG4SH_FORMAT=''

A format for the header of each message. It could overwrite the default format: 'timestamp log-level'

=item LOG4SH_COLOR=1

Does it use colors? There are following default colors:

    * ERROR   - red
    * FATAL   - red
    * INFO    - white
    * SUCCESS - green
    * WARN    - yellow
    * DEBUG   - blue
    * TRACE   - cyan

There are following defined colors:

    * LOG4SH_COLOR_BOLD="\e[1;37m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_RED="\e[1;31m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_WHITE="\e[0;37m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_GREEN="\e[1;32m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_YELLOW="\e[1;33m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_BLUE="\e[1;34m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_CYAN="\e[1;36m"'
    * LOG4SH_COLOR_OFF="\e[0m"'

    * LOG4SH_DEFAULT_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_OFF"'
    * LOG4SH_ERROR_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_RED"'
    * LOG4SH_FATAL_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_RED"'
    * LOG4SH_INFO_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_WHITE"'
    * LOG4SH_SUCCESS_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_GREEN"'
    * LOG4SH_WARN_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_YELLOW"'
    * LOG4SH_DEBUG_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_BLUE"'
    * LOG4SH_TRACE_COLOR="$LOG4SH_COLOR_CYAN"'

You can also overwrite them.

=item LOG4SH_QUIET=0

Does it be quiet? It is not equivalent of NONE level. This disables logging only to STDOUT. NONE level disables all messages, even to log file.

=item LOG4SH_LEVEL=INFO

The priority of the log message, logging level. Same as Log4Perl and Log4J. There are following and allowed levels:

    ALL (synonym for TRACE)
    TRACE
    DEBUG
    INFO
    WARN
    ERROR
    FATAL
    NONE (no logging)

Eeach level includes the one below. Ie. B<WARN> will print B<WARN>, B<ERROR>, and B<FATAL> messages.

=item LOG4SH_FILE=''

Where messages are saved.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Piotr Rogoza, E<lt>piotr.r.public@gmail.com<gt>

=cut

